Syntax is the formula
Magic is the formula - Magic is syntax - Prospero possesses books that possess syntax - that hold syntax - that hold that perfect combination that allows cult/magic/religion to exist

How does the idea of the hole beyond the canvas - inside the canvas - constitute a scandal for us? How are we terrified by that simple, that elementary hole - how does it shatter our ideas about art?

chronology of art
editing is a part of every art
syntax is the opposite of art
the platonic idea belongs to the realm of syntax
the platonic idea is the perfect syntactical combination belonging to the authentic work of art
we restitute aura
editing is a work of restitution of the aura
whenever we see Langland bent on his book, working in London among the distractions offered by

FUCK

Langland really is PRECISELY about what we thought

Langland is a book about writing

Before

before that thought

what is the thought that we had before that thought

we were thinking that

that whenever we try to unfold, to revert the process of the hole - that that hole is at the sime the cult and its absence, we venerate the small hole that allows the existence, the practice of perspective; and at the same time, we need it to revert its agency.

How does this work?

we are somehow confronted with a paradox here - let us unfold it:

1. syntax is opposed to the chronology of production. the letter that Joyce wrote before anything else while producing Finnegans wake exists in many versions; those many versions - the sheer existence of those many versions - are the opposite of the perfect formula that we would like to think constitutes the real Finnegans wake. we have the platonic idea of finnegans wake contrasting its multiple and fragmentary realizations. the platonic idea of finnegans wake is organized according to a principle of aesthetic 

syntax is atemporal. syntax is spatial.
the chronology of an artifact, on the contrary, is temporal.

Both attempts have to do with our need to confer an aura to any sort of work of art. Art is inseparable from the idea of aura.
