Tyrannical Meaning
Density is loss of meaning
Liberty is loss of meaning
Connection does not imply improvement

Network are structures that require - that require - that require

Ambivalence -

Moretti - a system that is too detailed is meaningless; a system that is too simple is obvious.

Leave it open to the domain of interpretation.

Is the rhizome meaningful/commendable?

Mon cher ami, je vous envoie un petit ouvrage dont on ne pourrait pas dire, sans injustice, qu'il n'a ni queue ni tête, puisque tout, au contraire, y est à la fois tête et queue, alternativement et réciproquement. Considérez, je vous prie, quelles admirables commodités cette combinaison nous offre à tous, à vous, à moi et au lecteur. Nous pouvons couper où nous voulons, moi ma rêverie, vous le manuscrit, le lecteur sa lecture; car je ne suspends pas la volonté rétive de celui-ci au fil interminable d'une intrigue superflue. Enlevez une vertèbre, et les deux morceaux de cette tortueuse fantaisie se rejoindront sans peine. Hachez-la en nombreux fragments, et vous verrez que chacun peut exister à part. Dans l'espérance que quelques-uns de ces tronçons seront assez vivants pour vous plaire et vous amuser, j'ose vous dédier le serpent tout entier.
http://baudelaire.litteratura.com/pop/texte/138-preface.html
Le Spleen de Paris

We call a "plateau" any multiplicity connected to other multiplicities by superficial underground stems in such a way as to form or extend a rhizome. We are writing this book as a rhizome. It is composed of plateaus. We have given it a circular form, but only for laughs. Each morning we would wake up, and each of us would ask himself what plateau he was going to tackle, writing five lines here, ten there. [...] We made circles of convergence. Each plateau can be read starting anywhere and can be related to any other plateau. (Deleuze & Guattari, 22)

Baudelaire compares his collection of Petit poèmes en prose to a living creature, a mythological combination of an ouroboros and a hydra. It is a being that possesses a wholeness, a breathing "serpent tout entier"; and it is, at the same time, a gift that requires dissection and recomposition in order to be fully understood. It is both organic and inanimate - it can be effortlessy cut in "tron

How does this structure differ from D&G? Talk about alternativement et reciproquement; talk about the fact that this thing will always look like a serpent, that it will, therefore, always have one head and one tail. That it will possess an order that is definite and verifiable. A syntax - and, therefore, a meaning. The constraints of syntax are the constraints of a logic that makes it meaningful; tyranny is meaning. Meaning is tyrannical. Freedom is meaningless. D&G's project makes no sense.
