Is Poetry Code?

Is poetry code? That is – is poetry norm, prescription, a set of instructions used to shape a specific knowledge within the mind of the reader, or listener? The most impressive notion that I have drawn from this week's readings is the inevitable coincidence between information and process. Any piece of information is considerable as such only if it either activates or participates in a process, leading to a result – an output – that is no longer the same original datum, or input, that it acquired at the beginning. In discussing the prodigious qualities of embryonic matter, Von Uexküll (153) is the first to suggest an analogy with literature: the prenatal grafting that he describes resembles, in his comparison, a sudden apparition of words and characters from Shakespeare's Hamlet within the context of Schiller's Wilhelm Tell. If we had to unpack the metaphor, we might initially assert that the two plays correspond to two different species of amphibians, one a carnivore, the second a herbivore; one of the two, Wilhelm Tell, presents a malformation in the genetic locus “monologue”, where an extraneous fragment of stem cells issued an unfamiliar “To be or not to be”. In this reading, the finite specimens would be the plays, and the original genetic matter a sort of unspecified literary paternity (theme? author? language? style?). But at a closer look, the passage might be more problematic: Von Uexküll is speaking about “a great surprise in the theater”, that is, about a specific performance of Wilhelm Tell. The elements of the equation shift: the two specimens are two potential performances of two supposedly distinct plays, and the genetic matter is the textual tradition from which they are staged. Poetry is the code of the performance.

Would it be possible to extend the comparison – this genetically prescriptive power – to any sort of literary artifact? Let us look at Losee's diagram of information (14), as applied to language: if the message received were a declamation of Kubla Khan, would our knowledge of the poem – the collection of pictures and impressions that it shapes in our brain – be hierarchically higher than the poem itself? Does the poem eventually only work as a blueprint for the sensations that it ought to produce?
